
By Ruairí Keogh, Ben Healy, Khaya Khumalo 
	Easy Peasy Design sheet	

We have designed a website called Easy Peasy. Our website allows the user to easily access quick and easy recipes. Our website is easy to use, it has a basic layout. We feel this method is better suited for our target audience to use. Our target audience comprises everyone who uses the internet. We came to this conclusion by following the notes from our lectures. We assume that our audience will have internet access and a computer to access our website. Our website has an attractive aspect to it. This is achieved by our implement ion of creative features to our site. All of these design methods mentioned above will be explained in detail in this design sheet. Below this intro there will be a detailed explanation of how we added text and formatting to create a site that accomplishes all of these tasks.

As a team that built this website, we decided that using text that is easy to read and interpret. To do this we had to consider font size. We decided that our site need a large font size, this decision was influenced by the advice given to us in the lectures. Our design team agreed that this method would allow all of our users, from the visually impaired to those who have healthy vision to see the entire website’s content clearly. Along with that, the styling of our text came into consideration, so we decided to use the font family within times new roman, the colour blue behind the white background and orange to make the two texts stand out from the blue back ground. As explained in the lectures we assumed that styling is important to attract potential users. We chose blue because we felt it was a creative and neutral colour. These colours are used in uniform to give the user a sense organisation throughout our site. We believe that with these attributes, our website is an attractive, easily navigated and informative website to be used by all.

 Another aspect, one of the most important ones which needed to be focused upon to create the desired website is having a appropriate colour scheme and appetizing images. All of Easy Peasy is blue and white. We chose this website after researching successful websites such as BBC Good Food (22 November 2014). We realized that their colour scheme, which is usually a colour against white, was very attractive and it gave the user a sense of simplicity and cleanliness. We felt these aspects are important to creating a good recipe website. Images of meals can be found above each corresponding recipe. After observing other recipe websites, such as Food.com (22 November 2014), we saw a trend of enticing images of corresponding recipes. This feature doesn’t only attract the user; it also assists the user to what the end result of a recipe should look like. From the knowledge we gained in the lectures, we believe these features will make our site easier to use and functional.

In order to make our website simpler, we had to take another aspect into consideration. This aspect was the placement of all graphics and images. As we have explained above, the position of images is vital to show the product of the recipe, hence we placed each corresponding images above its recipe. Graphics also had to be positioned in a way that would be very convenient for the user. They also had to have a uniform design throughout the pages of the website, in order to maintain clarity for the user throughout their experience. We came to this conclusion after reviewing our notes from our lectures.  

Another step taken to create the desired website was the selection of elements that would improve our website. The use of appropriate headings can be observed throughout our website. Each link has the biggest heading size (h1). We used this layout, because in the lectures we were told that this method would allow the user to distinguish the content with ease. We also did not include a lot of unnecessary content, due to the fact that this could make the website complicated to use, for the user. Our paragraphs are placed in the centre along with the images and each sentence is place in list form to make it easier to read for the user. All of these decisions where influenced by our notes from lectures.

Last but not least important is navigation. Good navigation is the most important aspect when creating a functional and simple website.  Our navigation is made to be simple and very noticeable. This is why all the links throughout our website are orange; we believed that giving our links their unique colours will make the user’s experience simpler. We made a navigation bar below the logo containing all of the pages of the site. These links have large font size to make them standout further. In most of the pages there is a sub navigation bar that helps the user navigate throughout the pages content easily. This knowledge was gained by reviewing notes from our lectures. If these methods don’t work for the user there is a link they can access that gives the user out direct contact information.

As you can see we put great effort into making this website user friendly and attractive. We did this by considering our users who would have little or no experience. We felt it would be effective to consider the lowest experienced users to accommodate all. All of the points discussed in this design sheet were supported by our lecture notes and BBC Good Food accessed on the 22 November 2014 by BBC [online], Food.com accessed on the 22 November 2014 by Food.com [online]. 
